#summary Using Accessibility and Text-to-Speech tools with SumatraPDF.

= Accessibility and Text-to-Speech in SumatraPDF =

SumatraPDF prerelease supports experimental UIA accessibility API, which 
allows for example screen readers to read out loud the selected
text in document.

== Accessibility in SumatraPDF plugin ==

Accessibility features are considered experimental and
accessibility is not enabled at the moment in the SumatraPDF plugin.

== Usage ==

=== Microsoft Narrator ===
  # Start Microsoft Narrator
  # Start SumatraPDF
  # Open document in SumatraPDF
  # Select text. Microsoft Narrator will now read out the selected text.
  
Known issue: Sometimes Narrator does not read the selection. This seems to be a focus 
related problem and selecting another window and then back the SumatraPDF window may
fix the problem. 
  
== Supported configurations ==

=== Supported Files ===
  * PDF, XPS, !DjVu

=== Supported Clients ===
  * Microsoft Narrator

=== Unsupported Clients ===
  * [http://community.nvda-project.org/ NVDA].


= Technical Documentation =

This section is documentation for SumatraPDF and other developers.

== UIAutomation element structure when a document is loaded ==
{{{
Window
 |-> FragmentRoot
     Name: "Canvas"
     ControlType: UIA_CustomControlTypeId
      |
      |-> Fragment
          Name: [filename]
          ControlType: UIA_DocumentControlTypeId 
          NativeWindowHandle: 0
          Patterns: ITextProvider
            |
            | -> Fragment
            |    Name: "Page 1"
            |    Patterns: IValueProvider
            -
            -
            |
            | -> Fragment
                 Name: "Page n"
                 Patterns: IValueProvider
}}}
== UIAutomation element structure when no document is loaded ==
{{{
Window
 |-> FragmentRoot
     Name: "Canvas"
     ControlType: UIA_CustomControlTypeId
      |
      |-> Fragment
          Name: "Start Page"
}}}