#summary How to join SumatraPDF project as a developer

= How to join SumatraPDF project =

SumatraPDF is an open-source, [http://www.ohloh.net/p/4623/contributors collaborative] project. We always welcome new developers who want to join the project, contribute code and new features.

There are two ways to submit code for potential inclusion:
 * using Github
 * by attaching patches

== Contribute by using Github ==

 * fork the [https://github.com/kjk/sumatrapdf read-only Github mirror]
 * create a new issue in the bug tracker. In this issue:
  * describe what you plan to work on
  * tell us the location of your fork
 * work on the code
 * we'll keep an eye on checkins and provide feedback on code
 * when the code is ready, we'll merge it with svn

For more detailed instructions read [GithubWorkflow GitHub workflow].

== Contribute by using patches ==

 * write a patch against the latest sources
 * create a new bug in [http://code.google.com/p/sumatrapdf/issues/list issue tracker] and attach the patch.
 * make sure to describe what the patch is trying to do and why (not every change is good)
 * we'll review the patch and either incorporate it into sources (if we think it's good) or describe how it needs to be improved

There's plenty of things [http://code.google.com/p/sumatrapdf/issues/list to work on].

== Getting the sources and compiling ==

To get the latest sources, follow [http://code.google.com/p/sumatrapdf/source/checkout those instructions].

You'll need Visual Studio 2012, 2010 or 2008 to build. A free [http://www.microsoft.com/visualstudio/eng/products/visual-studio-express-for-windows-desktop Express Edition] for C++ will work.

Open sumatrapdf-vc2010.sln, compile and run.

== Questions? ==

You can reach other developers in the [http://forums.fofou.org/sumatrapdf/ forums].